#DataSurface

--- Create 3D Surfaces from Data Files
=====

DataSurface is a Blender Addon to create Object using Data Files.

Copyleft (*) 2014 Sun Smallwhite (niasw) <niasw@pku.edu.cn>

>This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
>modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
>as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
>of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

Currently, there is only one module in this addon --- Text Data Surface.
You can create mesh or object using plain text data file (usually generated by your scripts or programs).

For example, I generated 3 data files: `Xdata.txt`, `Ydata.txt` and `Zdata.txt` using Octave or Matlab script `example.m`. The 3 data files contain the matrices of the x, y and z coordinates of the mesh vertices.

To use this addon, you should copy all the files in this folder (excluding `.git`, `README.md` and `LICENSE` if you like) to `(BLENDERFOLDER)/(VERSION)/scripts/addons/add_mesh_DataSurface/`. For example, I'm using Blender 2.71 on my Home Folder, and I am in this `add_mesh_DataSurface` folder, then I should do

`cp ./* ~/blender/2.71/scripts/addons/add_mesh_DataSurface/`

OK, open your Blender. Click `Files` > `User Preferences ...` in the menu on top of Blender. Choose the `Addons` card, Click `Add Mesh` under Categories tag. Do you find the gray line `Add Mesh: 3D Surfaces from Text Data`? Yes, That's my addon. Click the right check box to enable it. Then close the `User Preferences` window.

Now, let's have a try. Move your mouse pointer within the `3D View` block. Press `Shift+A` to add a new mesh. Choose `Mesh` > `Data Surface` > `Text Data Surface`. Then you should see a rotating ribbon like mesh. Yes, that's the mesh of the 3 data files: `Xdata.txt`, `Ydata.txt` and `Zdata.txt`.

To change the data files, browse them by clicking buttons on the left side of `3D View` block.

Let's try the `loop` and `flip` check box. After clicking `loop`, you should see the figure closed in each Z slide. Yes, the ribbon becomes a tube. After clicking `flip`, you should see the light effect changed a little. Yes, the normal direction flipped.

Ok, that's all of this example. I hope this addon will help.

Oh, one more point: some scripts were inspired from Blender Addon `add_mesh_extra_objects` > `add_mesh_3d_function_surface`. Thank authors of those scripts.

And thank you.

Best regards,

Sun Sibai <niasw@pku.edu.cn>
